Hello there and welcome in this lecture we are going to be doing something nice and visual.
You can see here I've got some tests serve servers showing.
And when I hover over them something new happens when I hover over them.
We actually get a change of colour and I can select them by clicking on them.
We'll only select one server at a time but it will select a server and show me which one I've got selected
so that when I click Join I know what I'm joining.
Fantastic So we've figured out how to represent this to the users.
That's what we're going to do.
Let's dive in and get it done.
So as promised we are going to circle back to our selection list which is currently a bit rubbish because
when we select something it isn't really selected per say it's just we notionally have it selected.
We just can't see it on the screen.
So we're going to make sure that that is now fixed the game to do this in three steps the first one
is to make sure that we've got some affordance so that when we hover over things we can see that we
should be able to select them by clicking and then the other one is going to be actually making sure
that it is visible which one is currently selected.
So let's begin with step number one which is to making the text colour on click I dont mean on click
I mean on hover.
Thats changed that.
What we often do is update the text colour on hover and say I'm going to go in to unreal Ed go to our
server row widget.
We're going to do this in blueprint Now obviously you can do this stuff in C++.
It's perfectly easy to do it in C++ as well.
But I find that it's just easier quicker to iterate when you're doing y stuff in blueprint in general
and the maintainability doesn't take a big hit because we're not going to be doing a great deal of stuff
in here anyway.
So let's start off by going to our designer selecting our ROE button which is the thing that we click
on and we hover over and you know say here we've got two events we have on hover and on on hovered.
Now the first thing I want to check we could use those events to change the colour of the text.
Or we could do it by checking against a variable based on hover or an hover.
So let's have a look at the graph and see whether we can get something to do with hover.
Go we've got an is hovered and from is hovered what I can do is we can go and create a branch.
So I'm going to do this in event.
Tick.
And I'm going to create a branch.
Flow control node.
Can you use the boolean from is hovered.
And when it is hovered I'm going to go to set colour opacity and I am going to set it to yellow.
When it's hovered and I'm going to set it to white when it is hovered.
Now you might be wondering why am I doing this on click rather than doing it based on an event.
Surely that's less efficient.
Well it is at the moment but we are going to be dealing with a second event in a second which is whether
it's selected or not and it doesn't necessarily coincide with any of the events that were getting in
the event graph.
So for simplicity sake we're doing on tick.
There's not very much going on in the game.
Obviously if you want to do it based on events you can do that is going to add a little bit more complication.
But it is obviously possible as well.
Now if we go ahead and play we're actually not going to see anything because our join menu is currently
empty because there are no games playing.
So I'm going to go and rectify that by adding in some test data.
Basically if were going to go to let's see we'll be in the game isn't CB.
Is where we're currently adding things to the server names.
Array.
So in that server names teh array I'm going to go ahead and add a couple of mock servers which hours
to test whether we are selecting the right things.
I'm going to have test server one.
As the first thing.
And then I'm going to do it as server 2 and 3 by just copying and pasting them and making sure that's
okay while we go and compile so the idea here is that one we do a find session and when it completes
it's going to add in these three servers that weren't in the list.
And it's going to just add them in for us to be able to test out our hovering and selecting logic.
So that has worked out okay.
Go and see if this works in the editor.
I'm going to go play and join.
Wait for that server list refresh it to happen.
Which Take might take a few seconds and here it is.
We've got our cervalis which when we hover over each item it goes yellow and then it goes back to being
white.
So I can click on them.
They don't do anything.
When I click on them at the moment but they are definitely there they are buttons their buttons that
I can hover over and it changed the text the whole wrote when I hover on it.
So the next thing we're going to need we already got whether it is hovered or not.
We want to know whether it is selected or not to change the colour based on that as well.
Now the way we got to do that is to do that in C++ that's where that logic resides.
But we can expose a boolean to the server row at this level from as C plus plus So lets go into visual
studio get our server row a dot H and what we're going to do is we're gonna add a new public property
public because I want to set it in the main menu key without having to bother with setter's because
we've got a very light weight server road or cvp.
So what we're going to do is create a new property for a boolean and it's going to be a blue print.
Read only property.
Because we want to be able to read it but not set it from the blue print.
And it's going to be a boolean.
As I already said and it's going to be called Selected.
Telling us whether or not this particular surber Road is selected.
Now obviously this is not the actual place this state resides.
This state resides in the lair above in our main menu where we have our selected index.
But we're going to pass that information down into the side of the road so that it can update its colour.
So we've got our selected boolean currently set to false as default.
And what we want to do is go into our main menu C++ and every time our selected index is updated we
want to make sure we go through and update all the server rows on whether they are selected or not.
So I'm going to go and create here a method just for clarity's sake called Update.
Rose.
Or update children I think I'll call it.
And this is just going to take no arguments return void.
But I'm going to go into a head a file and create it.
I'm going to create at the bottom near the selected index as a privat void of date children and I can
implement void update children in the C++ just after I will just do it right after our selected index
because that is chronologically where it is happening.
For me that makes sense chronologically.
They should go in order.
They can't go in order in the h h file because one of them is a public method and one of them is private.
So we are going to update children after we have done the selected index and what are we going to do
with Update children where we're going to get do a for loop over all of the children and we are going
to set their selected in their selected boolean depending on whether or not they are the current selected
child.
So this is actually something that you could do yourself so if you fancy the challenge posed a video
and have a go at doing this remet a look at that documentation for selected index to see if you can
figure out how to get the children by index and find out how many there are so that you can do a full
loop over them and you may need to revise the for loop syntax that uses indexes both video and have
a go.
If you want this mini challenge.
Okay Welcome back let's do the milit mini challenge now.
So a flip over an index has three parts it has first of all the index itself which we are going to use.
You want an int.
32 rather sets to zero as the starting index.
The reason we're using an int 32 rather than a you in 32 which is what our selected index is is because
of we'll see in a second actually.
So the next thing we do is I.
Is less than what it needs to be less than where it needs to be less than the number of children because
we want to iterate over the number of children.
So if we go into a you panel widget which is the type of our server list.
You will see that there is a property in here called we've got one property called Get child out which
takes an int 32.
That's why we're using it 32 because it's index type is in into 32 and the other thing it has is get
children count.
That also returns in thirty two.
So you want to do selected and not select index rather but serve a list arrow and we want that to basically
get.
Child children count.
So were going to iterate until we hit the end of the children count.
And women do a plus plus.
I wish is the third part of a for loop which is what we do to increment I.
Okay so now we are iterating over all the children.
And we need to actually go ahead and get hold of one of these children.
So to get hold of one of the children we are going to do our server list arrow.
Get child at.
And then we can pass it I which is the index of that child.
Now what comes back from get child that it's a you widget.
Now we actually want a user a song and do you serve a row.
Our pointer called Roe.
It's going to be equal to that obviously is going to complain because what's coming back is a you widget
the parent class of you have a row because that's what we put into the cervalis that's what it takes
when we do add child it takes a you which say it's fine to add to put a use of Roshi's a child in there
but it's not fine to go the other way because we could have put other types of you widget him there
as well not just the use of rote.
So what we need to do is a cast say you can use cath's with a capital C and this takes a template parameter
which is going to be the type to cast it to which can be you server row.
You don't have to bother with the pointer it automatically assumes that it's a pointer.
And then we pass in the thing that we want to cast which is the child that we are getting.
Now because there's some repetition here because it's casting to use server row and the type is you
serve a row.
I like to use auto.
In this case to just avoid having the repetition it's clear what type it is because we're casting and
that the type is you serve a row.
So we getting a useable road point to come back and then what we need do after a cast.
We always need to do this.
We need to check that Roe is not null.
The reason for that is because if it were not of the type use of a row it would fail to cast to use
of Roe and would instead return a null pointer that's very safe.
But it does mean that if we put something else in the server list that wasn't a row we would need to
we would return and ballpoints basically.
And so we need to not be dereferencing our ROE at that point and then we can do Roe dereference and
we can get it's selected boolean and we can set it to either true or false depending on whether this
selected index is the current index.
That's why we're doing a full loop with I because then we can have an index for the current child and
we can compare it to our selected index.
Okay.
So let's do that.
We're going to do selected index dot get value has Remember it is an optional type so it could have
no value at all.
And we're going to set that where we're going to check whether that is equal to.
I so this statement checking whether it's equal to I is going to return a boolean which is great because
as selected is a boolean going to put it in brackets just make it double clear that we're saying this
statement is returning a boolean can end with a semicolon and I've mis typed does not select index but
rather selective indexing and a copy to make sure I've got that right now.
Get value as we've said is there.
As a reminder that this could be null and this could be an invalid value to try and get the value and
checketts equality.
So what we need to do is make sure that it is indeed selected.
So the way we do that is we do a selected index.
Dot is valid or is set.
I believe Knot's is bad because it's not a pointer and then we can do.
And.
And which is just going to do a Boolean and between is set I can't type selected in next day it seems.
Between is set and this value of.
Here now you might say what.
Hang on Sam.
Surely it will evaluate value anyway to find out whether this and statement is true or not.
Well this is where the semantics of this and SEC statement is very interesting because it's called a
short circuit operator.
That means that if it evaluates the first thing and it already knows what the result is going to be
it doesn't bother evaluating the thing on the right.
Now the same is true with all but slightly differently so with and how does this work.
Well if we have false on the left hand side of and so if it is not set then what we're going to get
is that there's no way that the whole statement can return true because and requires that both things
are true and if one of them is false then we already know that the whole thing is going to be false.
So this is why it's called short circuit because when this thing on the left is false it's not even
going to look at the thing on the right to see whether it's true or not.
So this is quite a common programming paradigm.
Obviously you can do this an if statement if you feel more comfortable.
But this is quite common.
You will see it around using the short circuit and that basically means that if this is not set don't
even bother getting the value.
So that's why this is safe.
And by the way this happens the same but opposite with an OR statement.
So if this were an or.
It wouldn't be safe and it wouldn't be right.
But if it were an or what we are saying is that if you can see that the thing on the left is true you
don't even need to evaluate the second thing because you already know that the whole statement is going
to be true.
So that's what I mean by short circuit operators.
That's quite an interesting little concept.
Okay so we have got the set out.
It's definitely a set and that is value that means that the row is selected by the way this has the
side effect that if there is no selected row then we are going to be false for all of the rows were
going to set forth for all the rows.
Which is correct.
Let's go ahead and build this and see whether it's giving us the desired behaviour.
In fact you're going to see whether this is giving us the desired behaviour yourself.
In that the challenge coming up for selecting the colours for hovered and selected Let's have a look
at Challenge in fact to set the row colour.
So you are going to have to choose the colours you want for the different states.
You're going to have to consider the states hovered and selected because now we have two boolean parameters.
How many possible states are there going to be and how many colours are you going to choose.
So pause the video and have a go at this chat.
Okay.
Welcome back.
So we're going to have a look at these two states that we now have in our survey right.
So.
If I asked you how many states there are going to be well if you've got two booleans and one can be
true or false and the second one can be true or false.
Then we have to multiply those two possibilities by two possibilities we end up with four possibilities.
I can demonstrate this to you with our branch statement so what we're saying.
Is that in the case that hovered is true then we're going to get another branch that is going to ask
the question of whether selected which we can now get because it's been exposed as a read only blueprint
property.
We're going to get the cases where selected is both true and false.
And similarly in the false case we are also going to get another branch the but a branch on the same
value of selected which is either true or false.
So in the end the execution pins that we get out of here are true false and true false for both the
cases of is hovet.
So that means that we're going to have to choose four different colours.
Now the false false case is where we don't have a selected and we don't have a hovered.
That's where I'm going to choose to set the colour and a pastie to white then we are going to have the
case where we are selected but not hovered that I am going.
I'm working up from the bottom here.
By the way for some reason and the colour there.
I'm going to choose is going to be a green.
Just a vibrant green then we are going to have the case where we are not selected but we are hovered.
That's where I'm going to have yellow like we had before.
And finally we have the case where we are both selected and hovered over in this case.
I'm going to use a lighter green.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Just select a slightly lighter green to indicate that we are both hovered and selected for go ahead
and compile this and play.
Go to add join menu and wait for the server find to finish and join variables to come up.
Then when we're hovering over we can see that indeed we've got a yellow hover as we did before.
But now if we click then you can see one event turns into a light green.
But if I move away from that it turns into a dark green and the other items go yellow.
So it's still showing the hovering behaviour but it's also showing me which server is currently selected
which gives us plenty more affordance on which item we're actually joining when we hit join.
Fantastic stuff.
So this is great.
We've been able to create a UI where it actually explains to the user which server is currently selected
and we only have one join button without having to have lots and lots of repetition PI selves on the
back that was actually quite tricky you can be quite tricky sometimes.
Now see you in the next lecture will be making these numbers actually mean something and also have things
like the username and give a server name to a server.